=head1 NAME

sjaakii - xboard-compatible chess and chess-variant engine 'SjaakII'


=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<sjaakii> [-log|-newlog [filename]] [-variant name] [-no_user_variants] [-xboard|-uci|-uci|-ucci] [variant file]


=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<sjaakii> is a program that plays chess and chess variants. 
It uses the xboard/winboard chess-engine protocol to communicate.
Apart from normal chess, SjaakII can play Seirawan Chess, Mongolian Shatar,
Makruk (including variants ASEAN and Ai-Wok), Shatranj, Sittuyin (Burmese
Chess), Crazy House Chess, Chessgi, Spartan Chess, Pocket Knight Chess,
King-of-th-Hill, Knightmate, Amazon Chess, Chancellor Chess, Berolina
Chess, Los Alamos Chess, Micro Chess, Capablanca Chess, Gothic Chess,
Embassy Chess, Courier Chess, Grand Chess, Opulent Chess, Omega Chess,
Shogi (including variants Mini Shogi, Sho Shogi and Tori Shogi) and
Xiang-Qi. Other variants can be added through a configuration file.

See xboard(6) for instructions about how to use B<sjaakii> through xboard. To
start up quickly, you just need the command: B<xboard -fcp sjaakii>.

Some of the variants SjaakII plays are only partially supported by XBoard,
and can only be played whith the legality-testing function of the latter switched off.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 8

=item B<-log [filename]>

Append all communication by SjaakII and XBoard to a logfile. If no filename
is specified, the log is written to sjaakii.log.

=item B<-newlog [filename]>

As B<-log>, but the file is overwritten rather than added to.

=item B<-variant name>

Normally, SjaakII starts with variant "normal" (regular chess), but it can
be made to start with any other named variant with this option.

=item B<-no_user_variants>

Do not read the default variant configuration file. You can still specify a
file in the engine options.

=item B<-xboard>

Start in xboard mode rather than the default mode.

=item B<-uci>

Start in UCI mode rather than the default mode.

=item B<-usi>

Start in USI mode rather than the default mode.

=item B<-ucci>

Start in UCCI mode rather than the default mode.

=item B<variant file>

Read variant descriptions from the named file.

=back

=head1 AVAILABILITY

From http://www.eglebbk.dds.nl/program/chess-index.html

=head1 SEE ALSO

xboard(6)

=head1 STANDARDS

WinBoard, B<xboard>(6) interface ("Chess Engine Communication Protocol")

=head1 AUTHOR

Evert Glebbeek <eglebbk@dds.nl>.

This manual page was based on the man page for Fairy-Max by H.G. Muller and
was generated with pod2man(1).

